Let's start getting into some interesting things we can do with selenium now what we're going to use
for this exercise is going to be this Web site called selenium easy dot.com specifically the slash test
part because this Web site gives us a nice testing ground for us to play with our Web site.
For example if I do input forms here and do simple form demo I can actually use this Web site to test
out typing stuff in showing message and seeing if we can do this with just code so the first thing I'm
going to do is copy this your URL and in our case we'll just pick input forms and simple form demo later
on.
You can try it by yourself trying out different things but this tries to mimic most Web site functionality
like form inputs tables alerts and models and allows you to test your code really nicely.
So let's copy this URL and the first thing I'm going to do is while we're automation testers we we don't
really manually type things in anymore.
We let selenium do that for us.
So the first thing I'm going to do is say hey Chrome browser I want you to get this you are well in
my case I'm going to say hey this is the you are all that I just copy and pasted Chrome browser just
get that for me.
So let's run that code
and check it out I've opened up the browser with selenium and it took me to the you URL that I specified.
So most of the times this is going to be your first line where we go to a specific you are well now
I want a window to be maximized so once again we'll just say Chrome browser and I'll say Maximize Window
so that we'll have a full fledged window this time around.
Now I'm going to close this once again because every time we run this code a new window is going to
open up.
So let's just close it for now.
Now the next thing I want to do is to check that we're on the right page.
Now the way selenium works is that it's going to look at this page and try to grab elements or find
elements in this page.
And it uses HDMI all that this page is built on to do this.
Now HCM else simply is if I right click on anything in the page and I click on inspect a developer console
is gonna show up and in the elements tab over here it actually shows you how the page is structured
using H2 email H2 UML is what allows Web pages to get displayed in a browser and they simply contain
information about each element in our case see over here it says complete automation testing tutorials
ACM all says hey I want you to write this text right here so that let's say we go to the name and slogan
or let's open up this.
We see that we have selenium made easy right here we have an image which is right over here.
Essentially A.T.M. allows us to display some text and some basic content on a Web site.
So with selenium we're able to grab these elements and check them and modify them and do what we want.
Let's go all the way up and show you this.
Each H2 AML Page always has a title tag and a title is simply what gets displayed up here at the top.
In our case it says selenium easy demo.
So what I can do is actually copy this and say hey in our code is the string selenium easy demo is that
in Chrome browser dot title.
Now let's just print here and see what we get.
I'm going to run this code
the browser opens up and if I go back to the code look at that I get true because that text is in the
title if I do something like Python easy demo and I run this
you'll see that I'll get false now a easier way for us to check our code than just running print all
the time is to use the search keyword that comes with python.
Now you won't see this around too much because what's going to happen here is if we assert something
if this returns false it's going to actually air out and exit out of the code.
So if I run this
you'll see that I get an error with an assertion error.
So this is a good way for us to test if something exists or not but let's go back to what we had before
which is selenium easy demo that should give us true and not error in our code now.
Another thing here is we probably have a ton of windows here.
So let's close them up and don't worry I'll show you how to actually close these later on if we want
so I shows you how I'm able to extract the title from you.
Another thing I can do is let's say hey I see over here in my HMO that there is a head tag and then
there's also a body tag so here could I do something like Hey assert body if I click Run here hmm.
It looks like we're not able to grab body.
So what can we do here.
Well another way for us to interact with a page like this is using selectors.
Now the selectors I'll provide a link to some of the Chichi here that we can use.
But the selectors are simply ways for us to grab items from a page we can grab items by I.D. by name
by class name by tag name by link text.
There's a ton of different things that we can do now to show you over here how that would look like
if I go to the Asian male page over here the elements you'll see that if we wanted to grab let's say
in our case we want to grab this button while I can right click click inspect and see over here that
I have the button has a type.
It has a class and it has some text which is show message.
If I go to the cheat sheet I see here that I can grab things by different different options.
We can do it by CSX.
We can do it by the link tax we can do by tag name.
We can do by class name.
You see here that it says Driver dot find element by class name.
So this is how we can select it.
So let's do that.
I'm going to copy and paste this and simply say hey Chrome browser I want you to find element by class
name.
And what was the class name that we used.
Well in our case the class name is let's say bond default.
So I'm going to say B10 default.
And this is going to be our button.
So if I run this and simply print button like this I run my code
you'll see here that I'm able to grab from the selenium web driver a web element and it looks like it's
an element I'm not really sure what's happening here but we are grabbing something a button.
Now this button element that we've grabbed is exactly like we see it here.
If I again inspect the element we've captured this part of the code.
So this millennium now contains this button for us to use and as a shortcut here you see over hero says
equal equals dollar sign zero.
This actually allows us to select this element and use it in what we call the console.
So if I clear the console and just say $ 0 you'll see that this is the element that we have captured.
Now in here there's different ways that we can interact with it.
One of the ways is to say something like get attribute and an attribute called Inner HCM.
Now inner ECMO is simply going to grab whatever is between inside of this HMO which is the button and
then you can see over here that the button closing.
So we want to grab the show message if I do something like this.
Let's say we call this button text and we print the button text file run this
oh I'll actually get an arrow because you can see here that I did the syntax wrong I try to print the
bond text and then got the attributes so instead make sure we move the brackets like this and run the
code again.
There we go.
You see over here that we have show message.
So I was able to through code inspect the page find out what I want to control.
In this case maybe it's this one.
And I was able to grab the text using the get attribute method.
Again all these methods I will link to they all are something that you just have to get used to when
you get into automation.
But if you need to understand basic HCM well then they're quite easy to understand.
There's actually not a lot of them.
I would say there's probably 20 or so really useful methods that you can learn and use.
But you know what.
Right now this isn't that exciting.
I mean yeah sure we've opened up a browser.
We got to well look at a button and display the text that it shows.
But I want to actually mimic something that we would do on a browser.
Let's say we had this input and I want to modify this a simple page where I enter some sort of text
I click show message and just like as if I'm signing into a Web site or uploading on Reddit.
Let's automate that in the next video.